Karl Hsu.
So, good morning, afternoon, evening,
depending on where you are in the world.
Welcome to Session 614,
Deploying Java Applications for Mac OS X.
As introduced, I'm Karl Hsu.
I'm one of the session engineers-- or,
I'm sorry,
I'm one of the Java runtime engineers,
and I'll be your tour
guide this afternoon.
So what are we going to talk about today?
Well, we're going to talk about
the various ways that you
can deploy Java on Mac OS X.
Mostly we'll be talking
about client-side Java.
We'll touch briefly on server-side,
but that's actually in
a different session.
We'll talk about tools on how you
can make that deployment easier,
development tools.
And you might think that's a little
bit weird to be talking about
that in a deployment session,
but it's not.
We feel that your job as an application
developer is to write applications.
It's your job to make the
code that people will run.
It's our job to make it as
easy as possible for you to get
that code to your customers.
That isn't anything that you
should have to really worry about.
You shouldn't have to work on it.
We're going to try to make
that a little bit easier.
for you.
We'll talk about which one of
those deployment options is the
best one for your customers.
It's the best way for you to
get your application to them.
And finally,
we'll take a little bit of a look
into the future and see what's coming
in the year ahead with Java 1.5.0.
I think it might have
actually been renamed 5.0,
but we'll have to see.
So this is the graphical
overview where Apple,
we have to have a nice UI on everything.
One thing when you look at this,
you have to realize is that the
Java VM is underneath it all.
And this actually is a little bit
different from other platforms.
On other platforms,
the JDK isn't always there.
You have to download it.
Users have to find it,
or you have to bundle it
with your own application.
Users end up with 15 copies of
the runtime in their system.
Apple provides the Java VM and
the JDK as a system framework.
It means you don't
have to worry about it.
Every Mac OS X installation
has a Java VM and a JDK.
If the user has access to
software update and has used it,
they have the most recent version.
This is a big relief on your part.
Your applications can be small,
and they can depend on
the JDK being there.
So what kind of
applications can you have?
We start--and the most obvious one,
the one that most users hit
and most users use and see,
are applets.
Applets running in WebKit and
applets running in Safari.
Safari, of course, is using AppKit,
but...
Steve Jobs loves Safari,
so it gets its own little box.
Web Start, it's the next step.
It's a little bit beyond applets.
It's basically an application
that's deployed as over the network.
It gives you a lot of the
benefits of being an applet,
and it gives you a lot of the
benefits of being an application.
The next step past that, of course,
is to be a bundled application.
I'm sure you've all seen them.
There are tons of them out there.
They look and they act pretty much
like every other Mac OS X application.
The end user doesn't know any difference.
And yet, they're in Java.
It's very nice.
All the way on the end,
it's the poster child for things
we don't want to think about,
shell scripts and raw
jars and class files.
You can run shell scripts.
All of these can be run from the finder.
All of these can be
run from the terminal.
But you can't do anything with them,
really.
They require either a remarkable
amount of technical savvy
on the part of the customer,
or they require that you
need no configuration at all.
So generally, we don't like that.
We like things to look nice,
to behave nice.
for the end user.
So let's start by talking about applets.
Applets on Mac OS X,
our plugin is basically
based on Sun's Java plugin.
Like a lot of other things in Java,
we try to maintain compatibility by,
frankly, using as much of their
code as we can get.
142 is available on any
WebKit-based application.
Safari uses it,
but if you happen to use WebKit,
then you can also use applets.
and we'll see a really
interesting demo of that later.
Our applets are
cross-platform compatible.
Anything that you can do in
an applet on another platform,
you should be able to do on ours.
You shouldn't need to
treat the Mac differently.
Or if you're already on the Mac,
you shouldn't have to treat
Windows any differently.
The bonus of that is that there's
no download or installation.
It's totally clean.
From the user's point of view,
all they need is a browser.
They don't need anything else.
They don't need to download anything.
They don't need to install anything.
It's all there for you.
This isn't to say that applets don't
have any Mac OS X-specific technology,
because they do.
They do take advantage of
Mac OS X technology when they can.
They use the keychain
to store certificates,
HTTPS certificates,
and when you sign a jar.
They also take advantage of
WebKit to do cookie management.
So a lot of this stuff is in there,
and it's done a little bit nicer.
We've just released 142 Update 1,
Developer Preview 3,
and if you haven't tried it,
we would really appreciate it if you
would try it and give us feedback.
We've greatly improved stability and
performance and correctness in a large
variety of applets in the update.
Proxy support is greatly improved,
and by greatly improved,
I mean it works now.
And for those of you
who are really picky,
and you have your applets well organized
into your site and bordered by things,
we now have support for a
dynamic resizing of applets.
That means when you set width equal to
a percentage and you resize your page,
the applet will now resize.
Your page won't suddenly look like
a total disaster as soon as the
developer decides-- or the user
tries to resize the Safari window.
And new from last year, Live Connect.
Live Connect is the ability for Java and
JavaScript to talk to each other.
This opens up a lot of things.
There were a lot of legacy
sites that didn't work with
Safari before that do now.
But it is a legacy technology,
and that means that there
are a couple of limitations.
We don't talk to
anything except for Java.
There's no talking between
JavaScript and Flash,
for instance.
There's no creation of new
Java objects in JavaScript.
On the other hand, it means that because
it's built in WebKit,
again, any WebKit application should
be able to use Live Connect.
Once again, I have to plug our update.
It improves things
dramatically in all areas.
So to talk a little bit more about
applet deployment and how you can use
the dev tools to your best advantage,
Scott Kovatch.
Let's start off in demo one, please.
And over here, I'm running Tiger.
And what we want to show you
here is basically what applets
are going to look like on Tiger.
Now, you're going to say, well,
that's not very exciting.
You know, they're just applets.
But what we want to show
you is the improvements,
actually,
mostly that the Keychain folks have made,
but they're actually enhancements that
your end users are going to appreciate.
So here's my first example of an applet.
It's a pretty boring applet, actually.
But as you can see, you know,
as Karl mentioned,
we work across platform.
All these, you know,
the color of the text and the progress
bar and all those things are all
things that you set in the HTML.
We pick those up.
They just work.
So here I have a security dialog
because I've signed this applet,
or I'm sorry,
I've signed the jar in this applet.
And as you can see,
it's a self-signed applet.
I did this myself, you know,
threw it together using a key tool.
And, you know,
the alert is telling us that
the company is not trusted.
Well, Apple wrote it.
It sounds like I'm making fun of our
own company that you shouldn't trust us,
but the truth is that I'm a real
apple pretending that Apple issued it.
It's important,
that's why we have this here,
is that so you can verify the
contents of the certificate,
so your end users can trust that
what you're deploying is actually
from who it says it's from.
All right.
So let's close that,
and I'm going to always
trust this applet.
As you can see, when I did that,
my certificate just showed
up here in the keychain.
So I'm going to look at that certificate,
and we see, yep,
it's a self-signed certificate.
It's valid.
I can double-click on it.
Click on it and get a lot
more useful information.
You're going to see an expansion
of us using more of the public
key infrastructure that's
available on Tiger in the future.
But for right now,
this gives you an idea of what
we support and we're going
to be taking this further.
Let's also go back here.
And what's nice about this is that now
the user can not only take a look at it,
but they can delete the certificate
from the keychain as well if
that's what they need to do.
And I'll quit Safari and launch it again.
And now even though I said always,
we have to try to trust it again.
All right.
And just for comparison's sake,
I'm going to show you Install Anywhere.
And they also sign their installer.
They have a web-based installer.
It was issued by Thotay, or Thot, rather.
And I'm going to always trust that.
And you'll see the
difference over here as well.
It's expired, but that's all right.
In 1.5, this will be less of an issue,
because you'll be able to
get around these problems.
But the important thing here is
showing you what the certificate's
going to look like in the keychain.
There's not much information there.
OK.
I thought I was going to be able
to show you a certificate chain,
but no.
All right,
so that's basically what you're looking
at for applets as far as TIGER goes.
In Panther,
it's not a whole lot different,
but we're making it easier to manage
certificates for the end user.
Okay, let's go to slides, please.
All right,
now you've seen how easy it is for
a signed apple to run on Mac OS X.
How many of you actually have had to
write a signed apple at some point?
If you want to do it in Xcode,
would you agree that
it's somewhat of a pain?
I mean,
you have to get a shell script set up,
you have to do the shell script phase,
you have to get everything all set up,
and do mostly work outside of Xcode.
Wouldn't it be nice if I could have a
basic HTML file just created for me,
I could sign it as
part of my build phase,
and build and deployment process,
and just do everything in Xcode once.
Don't have to go back,
jump out to terminal,
set anything up for myself.
other than what Xcode will do for me.
Today we want to introduce
a new project template.
We've been talking about
Ant a lot this week,
and what we're going to introduce
here is a new signed applet template.
It's based on the
Ant application template.
I started with that and
built up this template.
We're going to take advantage of Ant to
do a lot of the automation for us.
We're going to start with an applet.
We've got boilerplate code in here,
but we're going to start with
the applet that you've written.
We also have a Java key store that's
got your certificate in it already.
And when we're all done,
we're going to produce the final HTML,
sign jar,
and we're going to put it in a place
where we can test it and try it out.
And we've also got provisions for
deploying that to a final location.
Won't actually show that,
but you'll be able to see how
it's done in the build script.
I mentioned Ant.
We talked about this a little bit.
Ant 161 is now part of
the core Java tools.
If you install the developer
preview 3 developer tools,
you will get Ant 161.
That version of Ant does work,
and it will run JUnit
and all external tools.
It's been installed to developer
Java Ant completely separate
from the J2EE tools that we
install as an optional tool.
This is not meant to be a session to
teach you how to learn to use Ant.
Go to see ant.apache.org.
They'll give you all the information
you need on external tools,
tasks,
how to link all this stuff together.
What I am going to spend some time
showing you is the important parts
when you want to write your own
Ant script that links into Xcode,
the important parts that you need
to make sure that you do have so
that everything will work right.
All right, so in this particular script,
I'm using Ant for some of
its deployment features.
Ant will do the jar, you know,
the jar step for me.
But it's got a nice
feature called Sign Jar,
and it basically wraps up the,
The Jarsigner command line item
pretty well with the sign jar task.
And we're also going to use it
for its deployment features.
I've written into the script an FTP task,
and I'll be showing you how to
use that and what extra things
you need to get that to work.
And as I said, as I mentioned here,
it needs two third-party jars.
We've got links on
where you can get those.
Very easy to do this yourself.
All right, let's go to demo number two,
machine number two.
- Ooh, pretty.
- Oh, wow.
Okay, here I've got Xcode,
and just to show you that
I'm not making this up,
I'm gonna show you that we've
got an Ant-based signed applet
ready to go here in the Assistant,
but I've already got
one ready to go for you,
'cause I got the properties all set
up so you can actually see this.
So here we can see that I made a new
project called Ant signed applet,
and I filled in the
archive so that I can,
filled in the archive item for me.
The code is the same as the project name.
And that's pretty boilerplate,
but the interesting thing
here is the build.xml file.
Let's see here.
Got a lot of setup.
You can look through this.
We'll have this available,
a sample code available for
you by the end of the week.
Here's the jar step that
puts everything together.
Down here is the sign jar task.
That's the interesting part for
what I'm talking about right now.
We're going to sign the jar file
that we created in a previous step.
And the way I've written it is that
it uses my username as the alias into
the default key store that's created
when you work with the key tool.
So what you'll need to do before you do
this is you'll need to make a key tool,
make an...
Just to get up and
running out of the box,
you'll need to do a one-time setup of
setting up a key store for yourself.
But then you can change
this and do whatever,
use whatever certificate you use
to sign your jar files normally.
and it's going to dump it
out into sign.jar file,
which puts it into the dist folder.
And one step here that's interesting,
I have an install target.
Actually, before I show you this,
I want to back up here and show you
some of these targets that we've set up.
So we have a target name install,
and a target name jar,
and a compiled target.
When you're integrating Ant with Xcode,
you need at least three targets
in your build.xml file to
get it all to work together.
So you need a clean task,
And we have that down here,
which basically blows away
my intermediate build and
my distribution directories.
I also need a compile phase
Which is where I indicate, you know,
what am I going to do to,
what do I need to build with this task?
And you also need for Java,
you need a jar phase.
And the jar phase is
going to take care of,
well really you can have
it do what you want,
but ultimately it should be doing
a jar at some point along the way.
Oh,
and the last one is the install phase.
If you go out to the terminal
and you do Xcode build install,
it will run this install target.
Oh, this install target,
not this one over here, this one.
And what I've done here is
I've set up an FTP task.
To get that to run,
you'll need to go to those locations
that you see up there in the urls.
You'll need two supporting
jars to get the FTP to work.
And instead of writing it down,
just wanna let you know that you'll
have to do this other piece of setup,
'cause we can't distribute these.
And I'll just build it here.
Remember that?
So there we go.
We did a compile, and we did a jar phase,
which had signed my jar and did
everything for me all at once,
and now I'm gonna do a run.
and the run task is going to open up
Safari because I used user bin open.
And there we go.
I have my signed applet ready to go.
There's my security dialog.
And just to prove to you that
the signing actually worked,
I probably should have had to print out
my username just for the heck of it,
but there you go.
So here we have a task for building,
I'm sorry, an Ant-based template for
building a signed applet.
You'll be able to get
this as sample code,
and I believe that is gonna do it.
I'll take it back to Karl.
That was a brief foray into the light,
vegetarian world of applets.
But now let's talk about
something a little bit more meaty.
Let's talk about Java Web Start.
So Java Web Start is basically
a web-based deployment technique
for applications and applets.
Applets run inside of a
browser or any WebKit app,
but they're running
inside of another process.
Sometimes it isn't what you want.
They're inside of a sandbox.
Even with the signing,
there's some limits,
and they don't really look like
real applications to the user.
So what Java Web Start does is
the user can go to a web page,
click on a link,
and that will essentially download and
run an application onto their desktop.
It picks up where applets left off.
They're kind of halfway between
applets and applications.
The second time you run it,
it will actually attempt to
build a bundled application.
So to the user,
the second time they run it,
now they have this nice little
application on their desktop
or wherever that looks just
like a regular application.
The nice thing about this
is that it still updates.
It still knows that it's
a Web Start application,
so it will still go back
out onto the web and check,
have I been updated?
Do I need to download any new files?
This is perfect from an
enterprise deployment scenario.
You have users who can
download these apps,
and they look like real apps,
so they feel comfortable with them.
They each run in a separate VM,
so if something freaks out Safari,
you don't lose everything.
And they're still talking
across the network.
This means you can be sure that
all of your users are running the
same version of your application.
You don't have to run around badgering
your users to upgrade to make sure that
they're not talking to the database
with the version that corrupted it.
The next time they run the app,
it'll come,
it'll grab the next version of the jars.
It's beautiful.
What's even better about
Java Web Start is that even
though it's platform neutral,
you can run this on
any platform you want.
It's not totally platform ignorant.
You can customize.
What actually gets downloaded
and run based on what
operating system and what VM,
actually,
that it will be eventually run on.
And we'll talk a little
bit more about that later.
Before we talk about
all this stuff in depth,
I just want to give you a quick update.
It's actually pretty short.
Once again, Java Web Start.
We try to base it as much
as possible on Sun's code,
just so we have to do less work,
because we're lazy engineers.
And 1.4.2 is available.
It's both available on Panther and Tiger,
same as applets.
It's all good.
And once again, I'm gonna have to kind of
preach about the update one.
We'd love you to try it.
It should make everything better, really.
There's a couple more updates.
They're basically mirroring
what Sun has done.
So let's talk a little bit more
in depth about Java Web Start.
Some things that you can do.
You can use JNI libraries.
That means that you can have
your native code integration.
You can do things that are only
possible on certain platforms.
And that means that you can
customize your Java Web Start app
for Mac OS X or Windows or
whatever other platform you like.
The ability to create desktop
shortcut applications,
the bundled applications
I talked about earlier,
looks great to an end user.
It makes them more comfortable
with what's happening.
They don't have to keep
going to a web page.
They only do it once, and the next time,
it's all good.
We use your icons for
the dock and the desktop.
We'll actually look in the JNLP file,
the file that you use to
determine what actually happens,
what's downloaded and how it's run,
and we can present it.
That way,
we don't have the generic Java icon.
From the user's point of view,
it's starting to look more
and more like an application.
And you can download custom
jars just for Mac OS X.
And we'll take a quick look at how.
So the Web Start JNLP file,
this is the file that you use to
basically say what's going to run.
When I click on this,
what's going to come down,
what's going to get downloaded,
what's actually going to run
on the customer's computer.
So the JNLP file specifies
a couple of things.
It specifies resources.
Resources can be jars for code
or images or whatever you want,
or they can wrap native libs.
This is what I was talking about earlier.
The neat thing about these resources
is that they're conditional.
You can actually download them based
on what architecture or what operating
system that you're running on.
You can also make them lazy.
And this is really useful.
If you have a huge application,
for whatever reason,
you've decided to build your
application in this giant monolithic
thing with a lot of different areas,
and particular users only
use little bits at a time,
you can specify all of the
ancillary jars to be lazy,
and they won't get downloaded.
They won't eat bandwidth unless the user
actually tries to use that functionality.
You can have multiple Java versions.
If you find that your application behaves
differently on 1.3 versus 1.4 versus 1.5,
you can actually, in the JNLP file,
you can specify particular settings.
You can say some resources are only
downloaded on this version of the VM,
and a different resource is downloaded
on a different version of the VM.
You can specify heap settings if you
find under one version of the VM you
need more or less memory than the other.
You can even have an installer.
If you have to install native libraries,
you can have something that the first
time they run the Web Start app,
you'll run off and another application
will be run just that one time.
And you can finally have their equivalent
of shared libraries or whatever,
which is the component extensions.
If you have a bunch of jars and
a lot of setup that's shared
between multiple applications,
you can pull that out into a
separate JNLP file that's referenced.
And then you can do just
less maintenance work.
You don't have to keep
changing JNLP files across
20 different applications.
So to do another
Web Start deployment demo,
back to Scott.
Thank you again, Karl.
Okay, let's say with demo two this time.
And right here I'm going
to show you Java Web Start.
And, you know, if you've run Web Start on
other platforms,
this should look pretty familiar to you.
Don't get used to it.
We'll be talking about
that in a little bit.
But the first thing I want to
show you is actually a game that
was deployed with Java Web Start.
And if you've ever looked at this,
it's called Puzzle Pirates.
And what's interesting about
it is that Puzzle Pirates is,
I believe, over a 20 megabyte download.
And we're going to get
it started up here.
And I hope I don't scare anybody
in the back because it's changing
the resolution because Puzzle
Pirates runs in full screen mode.
And what we're showing off here is
that full screen mode finally works,
works beautifully in DP3.
And just to show you what
you can do with this,
I have my own little pirate.
Yes, I test with this application
quite frequently.
And it's a massively
multiplayer online game.
So I can wander over here,
and we can scroll into a
different part of the village,
and we can head over here
and see what's going on.
Full screen mode is very smooth.
It's a lot of good work's going on
in improving the graphics rendering
in full screen and regular mode.
So I'm not going to
spend too much time here.
You don't want to watch
me playing a game,
so I'll quit that.
[Transcript missing]
- And here we got,
and I've already downloaded it once,
but as you can see,
it's already in the cache,
it's ready to go.
Actually, a little story about this is
that the first time I ran this,
it said,
"Mac OS X is fully integrated with
Oxygen." So I thought it was a...
I was hoping that would
just come up for you.
I couldn't control which one.
Yeah.
So what's interesting about this,
and the reason I pulled it out,
is that if you look at this,
this is an application that
looks right at home on Mac OS X.
I mean, they might want to have a,
you know,
look at Matt's session on building
great applications for the toolbar,
but overall it's pretty good.
And because it was signed
for full permissions,
I can go on the desktop and
I can just open a file here,
and I've got a great XML editor.
I've actually played with this.
This is a very nice application.
This is a, just a build.xml that I was
playing with and doing some
development of the template.
Copy-paste works.
I mean, this is a full application.
This is a great way to get
this down to an end user.
And let's see.
That's all I need to show here.
So the point of this demo,
and the whole reason I show this to you,
is that if you're writing
a Java application,
this is a great way to
get it to an end user,
whether you're in-house,
this came across through the internet,
publicly available,
but you can easily make a full
application that you can deploy to
your end users in your organization
if that's what you need to do.
Okay.
So now for the demos,
let's go see some code.
How many here have tried to write
a Java Web Start application?
Or using Web Start?
Would you agree it's a pain in the neck?
In general.
Okay.
If you want to start with,
usually what I ended up doing
when I needed to test this,
I have to go steal another JNOP file,
copy and yank out all the
parts that I don't need,
fix all the bugs that occur from
doing the copy and the paste,
and, you know,
I've got to deploy it somewhere
because Web Start will try to
download it from someplace.
It doesn't really have a good
notion of running locally.
So in order to make life
easier for you as a developer,
we came up with an Xcode
template that is built on Ant.
One thing, sorry.
Can I have the slides for one second,
please?
Running theme this week seems to be,
wouldn't it be great?
So wouldn't it be great if I could
get a basic JNLP file created for me?
It's a drudgery task,
you don't wanna be bothering with it
every time you need to do some work.
Wouldn't it be great if I could
deploy everything to my server to
test it so I can do all my testing?
And, you know, we're Apple,
we want you to use Xcode.
Wouldn't it be great if we
can just do this all on Xcode?
Well, we've created another
new project template,
which I was just getting
ready to show you,
but I got ahead of myself.
It's a Java Web Start application
template.
The product,
much like the last template I gave you,
is an HTML file, a JNLP in a jar,
and we're going to deploy it to where
you need it to be deployed for your
testing or your final development.
Sort of the boilerplate setup,
we'll just put it in your
home directory in your sites.
That's probably going to be
fine for your development.
All right, now let's go back to demo two.
Okay, and once again,
just to show you that
we're not pretending here.
Actually,
I think you probably saw this before,
but we have the
Web Start application template.
They're ready to go.
I'm going to open up one
I've already made for you.
And we've made a HTML file that's
gonna download the JNLP for you.
We've got a basic JNLP where most of
the information is filled in for you.
You want to put a better title.
It'll put your organization
name using the macro fill-in
that Xcode uses for templates.
The HTML file that, where it came from.
[Transcript missing]
All right.
So again, the build.xml actually is not
a whole lot different than
the signed applet template,
so I'm not going to spend
a whole lot of time on it.
But here we have the clean
and the install phase.
A couple of gotchas I found while
developing this is that you need to chmod
everything that you actually deploy,
because if you don't,
it's going to set it up as read-only
for the user that put it there,
and nobody will be able to download it.
This depends flag is actually a
very cool feature of the FTP task.
It'll look at what's on
the server and it'll say,
oh,
that's newer than what I've got already,
or newer or the same,
so I won't upload anything.
Or, you built something newer,
I need to put that up on the server.
So it's a very useful way to...
Make sure you've only got the latest
stuff on your server for testing.
And I'm going to run it,
because every template should
be able to run and do something.
Oh, what happened there?
Seems to be a running theme today.
Just gonna build it, sign it,
and put it in the sites.
And I've set up my run phase
to open it up with Web Start.
Okay, you know what?
Let's do this.
So, today is not a good day
for demos around here.
What was supposed to happen is that the
application would start up in Web Start.
It would be signed,
so it would ask for full permissions,
and it was going to
open up www.apple.com.
This will be cleaned up,
and you will be able to
use it before too long.
Thank you very much,
and let's go back to Karl.
Thanks.
So I hope you missed me.
I'm back.
And I say, hi, these are applications.
So this is a really short slide,
because really,
applications haven't changed that much.
You use the bundler, jar bundler,
and you make a little application.
This is sort of the traditional
way to deploy your application.
Developers are sort of used to it,
and users are sort of used to it.
So it's the thing to do.
The only thing I'm going to do
is take a brief foray into the
Java dictionary of the InfoP list,
because people have asked.
So the Java Dictionary is a
dictionary that's embedded in the
Info.plist of your bundled application.
And what it is is basically a
whole stack of information that
we pass to the running Java app,
to the started Java app.
You have your main class.
That's sort of self-explanatory,
and obviously it's mandatory.
You have the Java VM version.
You have to specify
which version of the VM,
but we prefer that you not
be too specific about it.
Scott talked about it very
briefly when he said 1.4 plus.
So what we'd like to do is we'd
like to get people away from saying,
"Oh,
I'm going to run on Java version 1.4.2."
Because 1.4.2 may not be there later.
If we come out with, say,
there's a monster security
breach or a massive,
you know, missing chunk of
functionality or whatever,
and we put out 1.4.3,
1.4.2 won't be there anymore,
and your app will stop.
working.
So we would much prefer
that you use 1.4*,
which means any 1.4 VM,
any minor version,
or 1.4+, which means I'd like to
run on any VM that's at least 1.4.
These are good things.
Try to do that.
This is the same thing that
Java Web Start uses in the JNLP file
to specify which VM version to use.
Specific Java properties.
These are the same properties
that you access with system,
get, and set properties,
so on and so forth.
Arguments.
These are arguments
passed directly to main.
You don't usually want to use these,
but it can be useful if you're wrapping
somebody else's command line app.
If you have a Java program that you
kind of--that expects to have all
this stuff passed to it as arguments,
you can pass them here.
The class path, path of files,
obviously this is probably going
to include at least one file.
That would be the one
with your main class.
And VM options.
So there is a bit of a difference if
you notice that the VM options are
all the options that you can have.
Java Web Start doesn't have that option.
You can specify multiple VMs,
but you can really only
change the heap settings.
So the application's a little
bit more flexible in that regard.
So I'm not going to go in-depth
about building applications.
It won't force Scott to
come back up here.
And the reason is because there's
an entire session on this,
or there was an entire session on this,
Xcode for Java Development this morning.
You should be able to see
it later at some point,
either on ADC TV or whatever we use.
If you have access to last year's DVDs,
there's also Session 608 from back then.
So now we're on to the sort of
the part that we don't talk about,
the Java deployment
that will not be named.
And that's shell scripts and J2EE.
Shell scripts,
only if you really have to.
I mean, if you're really,
really sure of who your
deployment audience is,
go ahead, use shell scripts,
it'll be okay.
But in a general sense,
we would prefer that you not use
shell scripts to launch your apps.
There are a couple reasons.
Obviously,
they don't look familiar to users.
There aren't something that, you know,
most users, you can't tell them, oh,
to run my Java app, go to terminal and do
this or that or this.
Or when you double-click my Java app,
this giant terminal window is going
to open and do all this stuff.
They're not going to be happy with that.
But there's actually another reason.
And the reason is because there's no
launch architecture surrounding it.
You notice in Java Web Start,
and in the bundled application case,
you can give us hints as to what
version of the VM you'd like to use.
When you run in terminal,
when you run with a shell script,
there's no way to do that
unless you do it manually.
You either say Java, blah, blah, blah,
and we pick whatever we think
is the most current version,
or you have to mark a full path.
You have to system, library, frameworks,
Java VM framework, versions, blah, blah,
blah, and you pick, like, 1.3.1,
you know, slash bin, slash Java.
And if that ever goes away,
your application just
completely stops working.
Even minor changes to that path.
If we move the framework
or rename something,
your application stops working.
So try to avoid that if you can.
So JBoss and Tomcat,
J2EE deployment isn't actually, you know,
it's not bad.
It's just not what we're
talking about today.
And there's a whole session on it,
so I wouldn't want to steal
somebody else's thunder.
Friday,
9 a.m., how to deploy JBoss on Mac OS.
10 server.
This is only available on server,
so unfortunately you can't count
on it being in the client version.
So, before we talk about which of these
deployment options you might want to use,
let's talk about a couple
of deployment gotchas,
things that aren't
always readily apparent,
particularly if you're
coming from another platform.
So where is Java Home?
Java Home is library Java Home.
And the lib directory, your source jar,
all the stuff that you
expect to be in Java Home,
the in directory, it's all there.
And it's symlinked to
the appropriate location.
So the obvious question is, well,
where do extensions go?
Extensions go into
library Java extensions,
or the user's home directory
library Java extensions.
There's a little bit of a catch here,
which is that while Java Home is
symlinked to the appropriate
version-- so when you run Java 1.4.2,
you get the Java 1.4.2 Home-- all of
the library Java extensions are used by
all the different versions of the VM.
So if you drop ant.jar into
library Java extensions,
ant.jar is going to be available
no matter what version of
the VM you're running under.
So that's a little bit
something to keep in track of.
It's confused some people before.
One thing to keep in mind-- and
I've talked about how Web Start and
Apple bundled applications can try
to pick which version of the VM.
Applets don't have that luxury.
Applets launch in whatever version of the
VM their container has decided to use.
So Microsoft IE Internet Explorer uses
1.3.1.
Applets launch there, use 1.3.1.
They don't have a choice.
WebKit uses 1.4.2.
Applets launched in there use 1.4.2.
They don't have a choice.
So applets are limited not
necessarily by the technology,
but with the knowledge that
your deployment may have to be
the lowest common denominator.
of what you think your
users will be using.
So I'm going to harp again.
Sorry about this,
but I've been asked to harp on it,
so I will.
Don't use 1.4.1 and 1.4.2
as your JVM version when
you write Web Start apps,
when you write bundled apps.
It is Apple's policy that minor version
updates will outright overwrite older,
minor updates.
1.4.3, if and when it comes out,
[Transcript missing]
Thanks.
All right.
So at this point, we've gone over all
these options-- applets,
signed applets,
Java Web Start bundled applications.
And you've got to be wondering, well,
why?
Which one of these should I be using?
So applets.
Applets are the lightest weight.
They have nice things.
They have built-in SSL support.
They don't require downloads or installs.
But they're kind of limited.
You can't choose the VM version,
and they're floating in
somebody else's process.
And they're in a complete sandbox.
If all you need is to
walk outside the sandbox,
pick a signed applet.
In a signed applet,
you can get local disk.
You can get some
restricted property access.
The next step up,
if you need native code,
but you still want that ability
to talk over the network,
the ability to get frequent updates,
or you need control over the VM,
which VM you're using,
which resources get downloaded,
think about Java Web Start.
You still get the ability to be
dynamic in terms of what's running.
But you get a little bit more control
over what's actually going to happen.
Finally, you have bundled applications.
This is if your app's really huge.
If you want to distribute
it on a CD some way,
or you don't have the network bandwidth.
You know, you want to distribute it,
and you want to be done with it.
Then you use the bundled application.
Or if you're bundling an existing
tool that needs arguments,
Java VM options that are very specific,
all of those things
have to be bundled apps.
Let's look into the future.
We've talked about what's happened,
and let's talk about
what's going to happen.
So we have the 1.5.0 developer preview 1.
And we just released it.
It runs on Tiger.
So sadly,
since I've just been talking about it,
there's no Web Start or applet
support in the developer preview.
It's an enterprise preview.
It will be coming, and in the end result,
you have all the Web Start applet
deployment goodness that you've
come to love and expect from Apple.
So let's talk a little bit
about what will be coming,
what's new.
Well, the applet plugin and
Web Start have been combined.
I think they just decided
they're so similar,
why have them be separate?
There's a number of
enterprise enhancements.
You can set a security model
across an organization.
You can have deployment
properties specified in a URL,
and you can mark properties
as either overrideable or not
overrideable by specific deployments.
HTTPS client authentication
rears its wonderful head.
And then a set of things which are
really interesting to me personally.
There's PAC 200 compression for jars.
It's a new jar compression,
and it has the capability of
compressing your jars up to eight times
smaller than they are compressed now.
This is great.
From a user's point of view,
it means when they hit your web
page and they download an applet,
or when they click on the Web Start link
and they start downloading your app,
it launches just like that.
It's much nicer,
and it starts bringing things
like Web Start into the realm
of being real desktop apps.
desktop app replacements.
The next thing,
the fact that Web Start desktop
apps can now have document types.
You can actually bind.
You can say,
I claim this particular document,
dot J-L-N-S-T-W, whatever, you know,
your own personal little initials.
But now you can associate.
When the user double
clicks on that document,
your bundled app is going to launch.
And that's awesome.
And finally, an import facility,
one more step in the ability
to make Web Start apps more and
more like real desktop apps.
With an import facility,
you can pre-populate the cache.
It's basically like an installer
that sets a Web Start up app as
if the user had already downloaded
all the jars and built the app.
So you get all the niceness without
that initial niggling startup,
you know, the first couple times that the
user has to click on things.
They can treat it like it was
always a desktop application that
just knows how to update itself.
All right, part de.
So let's go in a little bit
more depth about what's changed.
So in particular,
the applet plugin and the
Web Start have merged.
That means that they share a cache.
This is good.
It means that you're more
likely to have whatever it is
you're trying to run in cache.
It simplifies things considerably.
This means there's no more
Web Start application.
There's a couple of new
applications that take it place.
There's a plugin settings
and a cache viewer.
The rest of that functionality,
I think they rightly decided,
was to be pushed off into the browser.
So what's already there?
These are new to Java 1.5, but frankly,
they're not new to the Mac.
As always,
we've been on the leading edge,
so we've had these for a while.
Java 1.5 has integration with Keychain,
but even on 1.4.2,
Scott demoed it for you.
And we have auto detection
of all installed VMs.
This is a lot more important on
platforms that don't provide the
VM as a supported system framework,
which we do.
So we've talked about
Java 1.5 in the future.
And actually, we were going to end the
session at this point,
but they announced
Tiger earlier this week.
And I was thinking about Dashboard.
And I thought, wow.
That's pretty cool.
I can write little widgets.
But then I thought, you know what?
I really hate JavaScript.
I don't like writing
things in JavaScript.
Yeah.
But if it's a real -- and
then I went to the dashboard
gadget session and they said,
you know what?
This is a real WebView.
It's not just a JavaScript engine,
you know, putting up custom graphics.
And then I thought, hey,
that could be really interesting.
So if I could switch to demo One, please.
And I thought to myself, hey,
that's kind of funky.
Look what I can do.
I can run Java applets
inside of Dashboard.
So this is a completely different way
For you to deploy your Java applications,
you can write little desktop
widgets for people to use
at the touch of a fingertip.
And we'll leave you with that.
That's Deploying
Java Applications on Mac OS X.
Thank you, and have a good evening.
So we're going to do Q&A,
but first I get to do this whole thing.
Look, it's the reference library.
We have a ton of documentation.
Some of it's ours.
Some of it is Sun's.
It's all very exciting.
It's gripping text.
You should read it.
It will enrich your life.
Now if you have any complaints,
you can complain to him.
So if you have people to talk to,
if you have questions, comments,
feature requests, bugs, anything,
talk to Alan Samuel.
He's our Java evangelist.
His email is up there.
Bob Fraser is our marketing person.
If you feel that we're not, I don't know,
we're not marketing Java, talk to Bob.
Not actually sure.
And the Java Developer Mainland List.
Java Developer Mainland List is great.
It's a place where people of
all kinds of occupations and
creeds can come together and,
well, really flame each other about Java.
No, it's good.
It talks about things and people
hash out problems and they,
you know, where a lot of the web,
I'm sorry, a lot of the Java engineers
are on the Java dev list.
So actually if you have issues,
you have questions,
how do I do this thing on the Mac?
How do I make this app look better?
You know,
why does this behave differently
on the Mac than other platforms?
Join Java dev and ask and
somebody from the Java team will
try to answer your questions.
But of course,
if you really think it's a problem,
you should file a bug.
Always file bugs.
Bugs are our friends.
Because they keep us in business.
I mean, that's my job.
I fix bugs.